2.3 Muoversi fra i Synth

# Muoversi fra i Synth

So far we've had quite a lot of fun making beeps. However, you're probably starting to get bored of the basic beep noise. Is that all Sonic Pi has to offer? Surely there's more to live coding than just playing beeps? Yes there is, and in this section we'll explore some of the exciting range of sounds that Sonic Pi has to offer.

## Synth (Sintetizzatori)

Sonic Pi has a number of different instruments it calls synths (which is *short for synthesisers*). Whereas samples represent pre-recorded sounds, synths are capable of generating new sounds depending on how you control them (which we'll explore later in this tutorial). Sonic Pi's synths are very powerful and expressive and you'll have a lot of fun exploring and playing with them. First, let's learn how to select the current synth to use.

## Onde a dente di sega e prophets

Un suono divertente è il *dente di sega*. Proviamolo:

```
use_synth :saw
play 38
sleep 0.25
play 50
sleep 0.25
play 62
```

Adesso proviamo un altro suono - il *prophet*:

```
use_synth :prophet
play 38
sleep 0.25
play 50
sleep 0.25
play 62
```

E se combinassimo insieme due suoni? Prima uno, poi l’altro:

```
use_synth :saw
play 38
sleep 0.25
play 50
sleep 0.25
use_synth :prophet
play 57
```

Now multiple sounds at the same time (by not sleeping between successive calls to `play`):

```
use_synth :tb303
play 38
use_synth :dsaw
play 50
use_synth :prophet
play 57
```

Nota che il comando `use_synth` influenza soltanto le chiamate seguenti a `play`. Pensalo come un *grande switch* - le nuove chiamate a `play` useranno qualsiasi sintetizzatore sia in uso in quel momento. Puoi regolare lo switch su un nuovo synth con l’istruzione `use_synth`.


## Alla scoperta dei Synth

To see which synths Sonic Pi has for you to play with take a look at the Synths option in the menu at the bottom of this help screen (between Examples & Fx). There are over 20 to choose from. Here are a few of my favourites:

`:prophet`
`:dsaw`
`:fm`
`:tb303`
`:pulse`

Ora divertiti a *cambiare i synth mentre fai la tua musica*. Divertiti a combinare i synth per fare nuovi suoni e ad usare synth differenti in diverse sezioni della tua musica.
